---
layout: post
title: "Meeting Notes &#58; Area Consultation Meeting - 3 July 2006"
permalink: /archives/2006/07/meeting_notes_a.html
commentfile: 2006-07-05-meeting_notes_a
category: news
date: 2006-07-05 13:01:46

---

On Monday the 3rd of July there was the area consultation meeting for St Margarets and North Twickenham and Twickenham Riverside ward.


On the agenda was:

h4. Police Issues

The issue of begging in St Margarets was raised with St Margarets Safer Neighbourhood Team Sgt Malic. Currently this is not an issue for the police. If more people raise it will be given a higher priority. If you have any concerns please report them on 020 8721 2912 in an emergency call 999.

The Borough crime figures can be seen at "www.met.police.uk/crimefigures":http://www.met.police.uk/crimefigures/ you can compare crime figures on a ward by ward basis. Police would like us to register our mobile phone details with the mobile phone data base "www.immobilise.com":http://www.immobilise.com/. This is the equivalent of registering the chassis number of your car and means that your phone can be traced back to you. If the Police want to check the true ownership of a phone they will use this database. You can also register lots of other personal property on the site.

There is a "St Margarets Police and Community meeting 19th July":https://stmargarets.london/event/Meeting/200607050244 in the Winchester Hall behind the Turks Head at 8pm the police would like people to go and discuss policing issues with them then. They say that they will use this meeting to set the day to day policing priorities for the ward. If nobody goes they will have to set their own priorities. The police would also like feedback on the community payback scheme where offenders work in the community under the supervision of the probation service and the police to make reparation for their behaviour. This is often in the form of gardening or painting or rubbish clearance type work. If you have any community based projects which need some help or would like to know more about the scheme you should come along to the meeting.

h4. Primary School Places

The Council is looking at providing more primary school places and has identified St Margarets as an area which needs them.

The proposal is to make Orleans Infants and St Stephens Juniors both into two form entry stand alone junior schools. A feasibility study is being carried out with a view to consultation in later in the year.

h4. St Margarets Parking and Traffic

This was about the Controlled Parking Zone around Moormead and was simply to say that the CPZ arrangements for the whole Borough are being reviewed currently and this is part of the review. 


The "next meeting is 7.30pm October 16th The Salon York House":https://stmargarets.london/event/Meeting/200607050527. There are four meetings a year. The local councillors and the Police attend them.

It was pointed out that there was nobody at the meeting from St Margarets and that nobody in St Margarets seemed to know about it. The councillors agreed to check their database and to ensure that as many people and community groups as possible are made aware of the next meeting.

_If you would like to be informed of the meetings please email us at "content@stmargarets.london":mailto:content@stmargarets.london and the website will forward them to the Council._

Approximately 60 people went to the meeting about the community development plan at the Turks Head somebody must have been interested in going to this! Councillor Morgan has agreed to update the website about the school proposals and Cllr Khosa has "regarding the CPZ":https://stmargarets.london/archives/2006/07/cllr_khosas_cpz.html. Please let us have your views.





